MICA-MICs: a dataset for Microstructure-Informed Connectomics

The human brain is a highly interconnected network which can be described at multiple spatial and temporal scales. Neuroimaging, in particular magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), has provided a window into brain structure and function, offering versatile contrasts to assess its multiscale organization. Here, we leverage the rich descriptions of brain structure and function offered by MRI to further our understanding of human brain organization across modalities and spatial scales. MICA-MICs is a dataset for microstructure-informed connectomics providing raw and fully processed multimodal neuroimaging data acquired in 50 healthy control participants at an MRI field strength of 3T. Modalities include high-resolution anatomical (T1-weighted), microstructurally-sensitive (quantitative T1), diffusion-weighted, and resting-state functional imaging. We additionally provide users with ready-to-use connectomes built across multiple parcellation schemes based on histology (e.g. Von Economo), sulco-gyral landmarks (e.g. Desikan-Killiany), and function (e.g. Schaefer atlases), for a total of 18 different parcellations of varying spatial scale. All connectome matrices were generated using micapipe (https://micapipe.readthedocs.io/), a robust pre-processing pipeline for multimodal neuroimaging data. By granting access to data modalities at different pre-processing stages, this dataset will streamline the development of novel approaches to study complex interactions between regional and networks-level properties of the human brain. 

Please cite the following reference if you use this dataset: 
Royer, J., Rodriguez-Cruces, R., Tavakol, S., Lariviere, S., Herholz, P., Li, Q., Vos de Wael, R., Paquola, C., Benkarim, O., Park, B., Lowe, A.J., Margulies, D.S., Smallwood, J., Bernasconi, A., Bernasconi, N., Frauscher, B., Bernhardt, B.C., 2021. An open MRI dataset for multiscale neuroscience. bioRxiv 2021.08.04.454795. https://doi.org/10.1101/2021.08.04.454795

https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.08.04.454795v1

